woe to you who plunder though you have
not been plundered and you who deal
treacherously though they have not dealt
treacherously with you when you cease
plundering you will be plundered when
you make an end of dealing treacherously
they will deal treacherously with you Oh
Lord be gracious to us we have waited
for you be their arm every morning our
salvation also in the time of trouble at
the noise of the tumult the people shall
flee when you lift yourself up the
nations shall be scattered and your
plunder shall be gathered like the
gathering of the caterpillar as the
running to and fro of locusts he shall
run upon them the Lord is exalted for he
dwells on high he has filled Zion with
justice and righteousness wisdom and
knowledge will be the stability of your
times and the strength of salvation the
fear of the Lord is his treasure surely
their valiant ones shall cry outside the
ambassadors of peace shall weep bitterly
the highways live waste the traveling
man ceases he has broken the Covenant he
has despised the cities he regards no
man the earth mourns and languishes
Lebanon ashamed and shriveled Charon is
like a wilderness and bation and caramel
shake off their fruits now I will rise
now I will be exalted now I will lift
myself up you shall conceive chaff you
shall bring forth stubble your breath as
fire shall devour you and the people
shall be like the burnings of lime like
fawns cut up they shall be burned in the
fire
here you who are far off what I have
done and you who are near acknowledge my
might the sinners in Zion are afraid
fearfulness has seized the hypocrites
who among us shall dwell with the
devouring fire who among us shall dwell
with everlasting burnings he who walks
righteously and speaks up rightly he who
despises the gain of oppressions who
gestures with his hands refusing bribes
who stops his ears from hearing of
bloodshed and shuts his eyes from seeing
evil he will dwell on high his place of
Defence will be the fortress of rocks
bread will be given him his water will
be sure your eyes will see the king in
his beauty they will see the land that
is very far off your heart will meditate
on terror where is the scribe where is
he who weighs where is he who counts the
towers you will not see a fierce people
a people of obscure speech beyond
perception of a stammering tongue that
you cannot understand look upon Zion the
city of our appointed feasts your eyes
will see Jerusalem a quiet home a
tabernacle that will not be taken down
not one of its steaks will ever be
removed nor will any of its cords be
broken but there the majestic Lord will
be for us a place of broad rivers and
streams in which no galley with oars
will sail nor majestic ships pass by for
the Lord is our judge the Lord is our
lawgiver the Lord is our king he will
save us your tackle is loosed they could
not strengthen their mast they could not
spread the sail
then the prey of great plunder is
divided the lame take to pray and the
inhabitant will not say I am sick
the people who dwell in it will be
forgiven their iniquity